Translator: Theresa Ranft
Reviewer: Denise RQ
In case you didn't know,
2015 is the International Year of Light.
So, I thought I'd tell you
just a little bit
about the impact of light on our health.
My lab uses fruit flies
to study sleep and wake patterns,
but what I want to talk today
is primarily light
and its impact on health.
So, of course, we live on this planet
that spins around its axis
as it's orbiting the Sun.
As a consequence of that,
one of the basic facts of life on Earth
is that you're exposed
to light-dark cycles every single day.
Here you see the side of the Earth
that's facing the Sun, is light,
and the other one is dark,
and actually, I think
we have so much light here
that the dark side is kind of washed-out.
But if the light was a little bit lower,
you could see that there are lights
all over the places on Earth,
at least where there's solid ground,
just not above water.
And that's maybe a little bit
more clear from this picture
which is a composite Google image
of Earth from above, at night,
and I think that this is
a really stunning image.
It's stunningly beautiful,
but it's also stunning to think
about the amount of light
that we're enveloping the Earth on,
and, at the time of day when,
for pretty much all
of our evolutionary history,
the Earth has been dark.
There's this funny story
that I don't know if it's true,
but I like it, I think it's a good story,
where in 1994, in LA,
police started getting reports
of people seeing
a strange white cloud in the sky,
and they didn't know what this was.
They wondered if they should be worried.
It turned out LA had just suffered
a major earthquake
which resulted in citywide blackouts.
So, many people
for the first time in many years,
or perhaps the first time in their lives,
had an unobstructed view of the night sky.
In fact, what they were seeing
was not a trail from some alien spaceship,
but it was a glimpse of our own
home galaxy, the Milky Way.
This may sound quite incredible to you
until I show you this next picture.
Here's a picture that this guy,
Todd Carlson, from Canada,
took of his house,
a fairly typical-looking house,
a typical-looking sky,
at least for those of us
living in Boston, or surrounding areas.
You can even make out
some stars in the sky.
In 2003, there was a blackout
that affected large parts
of the United States and Canada,
and Todd Carlson lost his electricity,
and he was smart enough to take a picture
of his house at that time,
and this is what it looked like.
And again, here you can see this strange,
white cloud in the sky
which is the Milky Way.
The lights that we are producing
as humans, due to our ingenuity,
are wiping out, basically, our view
of these millions of stars in the sky.
So, if we think about that,
this is certainly a shame,
because there are a few things
that are more magnificent
than a view of the night sky.
But we should also think about
what is this doing to our health
if we're flooding ourselves
with this amount of light pollution?
So I want to I tell you
that all throughout your bodies,
in all of your organs,
you have biological clocks
that keep you in sync
with the light-dark cycles
of your environment that result
from the Earth's rotation.
And in your heads you have a master clock,
a main clock that synchronizes
all of these other clocks in your bodies.
The way that this works
is that light travels from a source,
such as the Sun,
or an artificial light source,
through your eyes,
and that light information is then
conveyed to the brain, to the master clock
that's in a part of your brain called
the suprachiasmatic nucleus, or the SCN.
So in your eyes you of course have cells
that help you see the stars,
that help you form visible imagery.
But you also have cells that are not
a part of the visual-forming pathways,
but rather their role
is to capture light information
and basically convey it to the brain,
to tell the brain what time of day it is.
So, how can I convince you
that you have this clock?
Well, if I closed you in a dark room
where you would have
no external source of light,
no alarm clocks, no clocks of any kind,
you would still retain
rhythmic sleep and wake patterns
at least for a little while,
because your clock was previously
trained to light-dark cycles
and one of the main functions of the clock
is to regulate behavioral rhythmicity.
This, of course, is not an experiment
that many of you would be willing
to subject yourselves to,
but, fortunately, there's an experiment
that most of us have participated in,
which is traveling across time zones.
So, I like this quote that says,
"When you travel from America to Europe,
your soul takes about
three days longer to get there."
And I know this is certainly true
when I travel from here to Serbia,
my home country.
It does take me several days
basically, to feel normal,
to feel aligned with the population
that's living there.
And this is because your clock
takes a few days
to get realigned with this new schedule.
And, if you think about this,
this makes sense, right?
So, for pretty much all of our history,
except for a blink of an eye,
in our evolutionary history,
nobody had a way of hopping
from one continent to the other
in a matter of hours.
We're changing time zones
so quickly, and in this case,
nature's not really keeping up
with what we are capable of doing.
So, what is this clock? And why
is it important to think about light?
The clock is a molecular oscillator,
the details here are not important at all,
I don't want you to look at the names
of these things on the board,
but I want to point out that the clock
is essentially the same
in animals such as fruit flies,
which my lab uses in our studies,
and in mammals like mice or humans.
And the first glimpses of the clock,
the components of the clock,
and the way that it ticks
were gained in the fly, actually.
What I want to stress here
is that the clock is tuned by light.
Some of the components of this clock
are actually degraded,
directly degraded by light.
So, that results in the state of the clock
essentially oscillating
throughout the day and night.
You can imagine
if the composition of the clock,
if some of the components are degraded,
the composition of the clock
will change between day and night.
And then the outputs of the clock
between day and night will be different.
So, for instance, during the day,
the state of your clock is such
that you are suppressing
production of melatonin,
which is the hormone
that helps you fall asleep,
but also has other functions, such as
anti-cancer and antioxidant properties.
So light. Let's talk
about blue light a little bit.
When you're outside during the day,
you're, of course, exposed to sunlight
which consists of
different wavelengths of light.
But the one that's particularly
important is blue light,
because of its effect on our clock.
Blue light also directly
elevates your mood,
it boosts your attention
and your alertness.
So blue light during the day
is very, very good,
and I'd say that most of us don't spend
enough time in a bright light outside.
You should be for 30 to 60 minutes
outside in bright light,
so put some sunscreen on and go outside.
The flip side of this
is that when you come home at night
I would dare guess
that pretty much none of us
spend the rest of the day
when we come home, in darkness,
and we're not in tune with
the natural light and dark cycles, right?
So, what we do normally is we use
our computers, smartphones, tablets;
we are in rooms
that have high amounts of LED light.
And, in particular, what's really bad
is that these devices
are very, very rich in blue light.
So, what you're doing, every evening,
when you're using these devices
is you're essentially tricking your clock
into thinking that it's still day.
And since the clock during day
and blue light
suppress melatonin production,
you're essentially doing that at night.
Now, I'm not naive enough to suggest
you never use your computer at night,
I know I wouldn't abide by that.
But one thing that you can do,
is you can turn the brightness
of your screen in the evening,
you can download programs
that filter some of the blue light
or you can use glasses
that block some of the blue light.
I have a little bit of news for you
that maybe you'll perceive as bad,
but I think it's actually very good,
which is that you are
very much like these guys.
So, this is a close-up of a fruit fly,
and you may not like if I tell you
that you are like these guys.
But think about it for a second,
this is very good for us
because now we can use
these animals as a model system
to understand more about sleep biology,
and how light influences
our clock and our health,
and this is what my lab is doing.
So, they sleep just like we do,
they sleep at night.
If we deprive them of sleep,
then they crash the next day
during the time
they would normally be active.
If we deprive them of sleep
for a long time, they die;
so sleep is very important for them.
The same genes that regulate sleep
in humans regulate sleep in flies.
And when they're asleep
they're disconnected,
at least to a large degree, disconnected
from their environment, just like we are.
So, if these guys are sleeping,
you need a stronger intensity stimulus
to get them to react
than when they're awake.
So same thing that happens to you
of course, when you're asleep.
Two people in my lab:
a postdoc, Iris Titos Vivancos
and a PhD student, Michelle Frank,
are asking exactly what is this barrier
that's established in the brain
that prevents sensor information
from coming through during sleep?
How can your same physical brain exist
in two fundamentally different states?
So now we're engaged, for instance,
here I'm speaking to you,
I'm engaged, I'm aware of you,
of my surroundings,
I'm aware of my internal state;
but tonight when I go to sleep,
I will be in a completely different state.
And another thing that we're asking
which is relevant
to what I talked about, to light,
is how light coming through the eye
is regulating sleep and wake patterns?
A PhD student in my lab, Bryan Song,
is asking exactly this,
What Bryan can do is, he can--
you can see that flies have these big eyes
that take up a large part of their head.
What Bryan can do is he can actually
trick the cells in the eye
into thinking they're seeing light,
even when they're not.
And this results in animals
having trouble falling asleep,
so it takes them about an hour
and a half longer to fall asleep.
You can imagine that now
we can use this as a model organism
to understand what it is
that happens in the brain
when it's getting light information
and how this is interfacing
with sleep and wake centers in the brain.
And so one final thing
I want to tell you is
well, first I want you
to think again for a moment
about our evolutionary history.
We evolved without alarm clocks,
without any external source of information
of the time of day,
and we've developed this way that keeps us
in sync with our environment.
But what we're exposing
ourselves to every day now
is very much interfering
with that natural system,
and I think it's really
something to think about.
So when people tell you that too much
light exposure at night is not good,
unfortunately, they are actually right.
And the last thing I want to say is
please support basic science,
because this is important for all of us,
and this is the way forward, I think.
(Applause)